Olympus Base! The shining jewel of human space exploration! A city on Mars; hundreds of miles of tubes and domes and pipes and everything else you could name.

Well, not yet. That's the 20 year goal.

At the moment, Olympus Base is a concrete bunker and some solar panels. They first started it back in '29, as a big "look what we can do" to start off the whole global cooperation thing (they sent it all out on chemical rockets! Imagine that!). In '36 they sent the first humans up - everything before then was automated - and since then there's never been less than 12 people out there.

In '41 they decided to make it bigger. Enter the Martian Colonisation Initiative. They sent a whole shitload of people and equipment up there and expanded the base to about 100 people. By that point it wasn't quite the untamed frontier it was in the 30s but it was still pretty dangerous.

Now it's 2045 and you can just move out to Mars. It's not quite as simple as just getting a flight to Houston and buying a ticket - you gotta do medical exams, psych exams, whatever - but you don't have to be an astronaut or anything.

~ fwhr #

The Initiative don't pay for all the travel to the launch site, but you won't need money once you're out on Mars; they have a kinda socialist from-each-to-each thing going on. And given the criteria for heading out, everyone has a fair amount of ability and not too much extra need.

I got a train from London to Paris, and from there a suborbital flight to Orlando. It was my last few weeks on the planet, so I thought I might as well splurge a little. The flight was pretty empty. I might have been the only person not wearing a suit. A few people gave me side eyes; I looked pretty out of place wearing cargos and a tank top, with all my important possessions in a gym bag at my feet.

As expected, I was way better in zero-g than anyone else on the plane. Nobody vomited, but a few people looked a bit green. In their defence, I had a lot more experience: the Initiative paid for a course of suborbital training flights, and a few centrifuge sessions to boot. I spent most of my time just looking down at the Earth.

We touched down in Orlando at 6:23 AM local time, having left Paris at about noon. Six hours of jetlag from a one hour flight really isn't something the human body is prepared for. I had about an hour to kill in Orlando before my train to Cape Canaveral, so I got a mediocre coffee and a decent croissant, and milled around the city until my train arrived. It was a proper double-height capital-A American train. Why the Yanks couldn't just stick with regular trains was beyond me, but I have to admit it was cool.

~ fwhr #

Cape Canaveral is hot. That's one thing they never show you in the movies. Granted, I grew up in the frigid wastes of north England, but still. It was hot. 
