Olympus Base! The shining jewel of Foundation space exploration! A city on Mars; hundreds of miles of tubes and domes and pipes and everything else you could name.

Well, not yet. That's the 20 year goal.

At the moment, Extraterrestrial Site-301 was a concrete bunker and some solar panels. The Foundation first started it back in 2011, partly to show off and partly as a backup if things got really bad on Earth. In 2016 they sent the first humans up - everything before then was automated - and since then there's never been less than six people out there. In 2019, they started offering positions on the base to the wider Foundation. Eight people applied.

~ hr #

Katie Yi was one of those eight. She arrived at Site-93 at 6:23 AM on the 16th of April 2020, via helicopter. The floating sea platform was hardly a surprise at this point, as the Foundation had a history of putting Sites in odd places. Take Extraterrestrial Site-301, for example.

She barely had time to check her bags in before she was swept into a meeting room containing the seven other applicants, a stern looking man, and two clocks, labelled "Earth" and "Mars". As she entered, the conversation died down, and it was silent by the time she took a seat. The man at the front of the room cleared his throat and prepared to speak.

"Good morning, applicants. My name is Percival Hornsbury, and I am in charge of coordinating Crew Three during your remaining time on Earth." He clasped his hands behind his back and surveyed the eight soon-to-be astronauts.

"Auria Gibbs, Zachary Harper, Jack Kynock, Gabriel MacKenna, Nikolina Merril, Sahar Ortega, James Weller, Katie Yi. You have all applied, and been accepted for, a position at Extraterrestrial Site-301." Hornsbury paused for a moment. "This is a minimum 21-month assignment. After the ejection burn from Earth, you will be unable to return until the next Mars-Earth transfer window." None of the crew seemed fazed at all. "You will spend two months training on Earth, then a further two at Orbital Site-108. The ejection burn is scheduled for the second of August."

Kat already knew all of this. She wouldn't have applied if she didn't.

"The FSS Endurance will take you from Earth orbit to Mars. There, you will go down on board FSS Kim Stanley Robinson in shifts of three."

"MacKenna, you have been selected as Mission Commander, due to your experience leading MTF Psi-7." A man sitting in front of her nodded and leaned back in his chair. This was presumably MacKenna. He was built like a brick wall, and had clearly seen action: a few scars dotted his arms and face.

~ hr #

- eating? in dorms? idk

"Because of course the Foundation has a launch platform in the middle of the Atlantic. Where else?" Moz slung his bag onto his bunk and sat down.

"Someone would notice if they put it anywhere else." Kat took a seat on the bunk opposite his. "I'm more interested in how they get the rockets out here."

~ hr #

The next two months passed as uneventfully as training for a Mars mission ever could. Crew Three got to know each other, saw each other vomit in zero-gee and black out in six, got drunk together, the works. Kat and Moz saw a lot of each other, especially as they were always last to do anything.

One part of the training that particularly stuck out was the Ansible. The Site on Mars was separated from the rest of the Foundation by lightspeed delay, and the higher-ups had deemed this unsatisfactory. The Ansible was a faster-than-light communication device, operating on the principles of mass-energy equivalence and quantum gravity. Kat wasn't really paying attention when they explained how it worked. All she knew is that it was very expensive and very important, and it had to stay with MacKenna.

Eventually, the time came for launch. The Foundation had got three Soyuz rockets from the Russians somehow, and had taken them out to the middle of the Atlantic in complete secret. Gibbs, Harper and Kynock would be on the first launch; MacKenna, Merril and Ortega were on the second; and as always, Weller and Yi were together at the back of the queue. On the morning of June 12th, the first three members of Crew Three boarded Soyuz 144-1.

- meet moz
- briefing at site 93
- gloss over the surface training
- finishes at launch day
