The Cupola II module is a marvel of engineering. It's not that much bigger than the original Cupola on the ISS, only being about 3 metres across and 2 metres tall, but you can easily get your entire body in and close the door behind you. Oddly, it's one of the few places on the station where you could get some privacy. In terms of construction, it's roughly the same as the original: six trapezoid windows arranged around a central circle. The windows are much bigger, though, meaning you get nearly uninterrupted views of Earth and space.

Kat pushed herself to one side of the module and wrapped an arm though a handhold. There were only a few days left before her and the rest of Crew Three boarded the Endurance and set off for Mars. Then, it would be nine months in a tin can before she felt gravity again.

"What made you do it?"

Kat turned suddenly, not having heard Moz drift in. "Do what?"

"Come out here. Leave Earth behind." He pulled himself into the cupola, closing the hatch behind him. "Give it all up, for a chance at chasing stars."

"I... I'm not sure. I guess I didn't really have much to leave behind." She sighed and pushed further back into the module's padded side. "What about you?"

"You already know this, but I was an MTF operative. I did a lot of stuff that I regret." Moz pushed some hair out of his eyes and continued. "When they offered me a chance to just... leave it all behind, start fresh on the red planet..." He trailed off. Staring out at the Earth turning slowly beneath her, Kat suddenly felt very small.

Neither of them mentioned the Lethe events, but they were both thinking it. "What about your family?"

A sad smile slowly formed on his face. "My family haven't heard from me in years."

"Hey, same. I know how it is." Kat shifted around the cupola, moving a little closer to the other astronaut. That was a weird thought: they were astronauts now.

- moz tries to do the steamed hams Aurora Borealis bit and kat fucking shuts him down

"C'mere." Moz launched himself across the cupola and grabbed Kat around the waist.

~ hr #

Dawn found them still curled up in the cupola.
